So I want to introduce our wonderful
panel that we have today. We have Lily
Ray, VP of SEO strategy and research at
AMSIF. Kevin Indig, the growth adviser
and creator of Growth Memo, Ross Hudins,
founder and CEO of Siege Media, and we
have Steve Toth, founder of SEO
Notebook. I feel like these people don't
really need much introduction, but here
we are. First thing that I'm going to
ask the panel to kick things off is
really the death of traditional SEO.
Lots of people are running around
saying, you know, SEO is dying. It's
dead. You know, traffic and clicks are
going to go to zero or near zero. What
are your thoughts about how that's
happening and unfolding? And do you
think that is true? First up, I'll I'll
elect Steve. What what do you think?
>> Well, I mean, people are still searching
for problems whether or not they're
getting clicks um from Google. So, I
think that um you know, there's always
going to be a need for what we do.
People are going to encounter scenarios
in their day-to-day where they need to
research things. And you know what we're
seeing is yes this crocodile graph
appear where impressions and clicks are
diver uh diverging from each other but
that doesn't mean that people aren't in
the same scenarios where they have to
research and where you know us as an
industry are the best people poised to
you know get in front of that user at
that high intent moment. So I don't
think that this is necessarily the
death. It's just a reframing in terms of
what to expect from the client's point
of view and you know really to focus on
that revenue, those demos, etc.
>> Makes sense. Lily, any any thoughts
here?
>> Yeah, I mean I agree with Steve. You
know, I think that like, you know, I
have 30 plus people on my team that have
been doing SEO for a long time. We're
now doing, you know, AI search focused
SEO. You know, the same way that we
evolved to do voice search and mobile
first optimization and core web vitals
and Google discover and Google news and
it's like the surfaces change in SEO all
the time. You know, the way that people
search evolves and changes. I definitely
think this is one of the most dramatic
shifts that we're seeing. But as far as
like the tactics, the way to respond,
the way to interpret data, the way to
execute strategies and implement things,
my team hasn't changed very much. Right?
It's the same people doing the work.
We're learning new skills. We're we're
learning new tools and technologies and
platforms and everything. But at the end
of the day, I certainly don't think SEO
is dead. I think SEO is one of the most
important ways that you can get
visibility in AI search.
>> Ross, any additional thoughts here?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I think that's all all
correct to to Lily's point. I think the
shift is the most dramatic we've had as
an industry since my time. Um, in terms
of the the techniques and tactics that
still impacts traditional search in a
lot of ways, but uh yeah, search is
still here. It's just a matter of kind
of moving with that shift and we got to
move quickly as an industry, I think, to
make the impacts for for the companies
we help.
>> Evan, any thoughts here? Yeah, I always
like to say that AO, to use an acronym,
uh, and SEO are about 90% the same. uh
I'm seeing that there are more things
popping up as positive test results that
are that I would not do from a classic
SEO perspective uh that are getting
interesting. But then you know to to
kind of refine that point a little bit
um you know like Google is I would say
hasn't just caught up to OpenAI but
probably even past OpenAI in terms of
model quality. they're getting tons of
traction in Gemini. And so I think
there's like this interesting or maybe
these two to three very interesting
connected questions in the room which
are you know like
how important is Chad GPT actually or to
be visible there you know this is not
rhetorical but this is like an actual
question that I have now that Google is
quote unquote reclaiming the AI war and
uh uh what's to be gained from being
visible in AI answers. I think that's
also a really big question mark. Uh but
I I don't think that's proven at all
yet. Um uh and then three, you know,
like um how important is or how much can
we actually influence these things? I
mean, we can influence synthetic prompts
uh but how much can we actually
influence purchase decisions when they
happen on AI? So, lots of meta
questions, lots of philosophical stuff,
probably hard to answer, but I think
like you know, SEO, AO, same tactics,
different playing field, a few more
things that move the needle on AO, but
like how much of there is there? And
again, I don't mean this in in any
direction. This is like a genuine
question.
>> Yeah, I've I've also heard the statistic
90% overlap between SEO and AEO, GEO,
whatever you want to call it. I think
Lily, you actually said that in your
your recent like Moz post as well about
a 90% overlap. So my question to all of
you is where is that 10% difference that
you're finding between this AI search
stuff and traditional SEO? What does
that 10% look like? Lily, what do you
think?
>> Yeah, I mean, I've written about this a
few times. I mean the way I'm seeing it
obviously things are dramatically
changing in terms of how people are
getting information how people are
interacting with large language models
the prompts the query fan out like the
kind of fundamental mechanism of how AI
search works is a very big difference um
and the way that we track that report on
that the metrics involved the tools
involved that's evolving I also think
that prioritization of digital marketing
efforts is shifting around a bit you
know one of the reasons what I've been
saying since day one is that this is so
similar is is I work at an agency where
we have a social media team, we have,
you know, influencer marketing, we have
web development, we have analytics, we
have a lot of the fundamental skills
that are needed to do AEO well, but you
kind of have to shift around how you
execute it, right? I think like off-site
marketing, digital PR is becoming a lot
more important now. Making sure your
brand is mentioned across important
places is much more important now. Um,
so I think like it's kind of a rep
prioritization of what, you know, many
marketing teams were already doing. But
I do think the main change has been in
how how we analyze the performance and
how we measure performance and the
metrics involved.
>> Yeah, I'm seeing that that offsite to
Lily's point. I mean affiliate uh
affiliate is like something I don't
think we many SEOs thought much at all
about um in the past and it's I'm I'm
seeing top source URLs where it's often
75% of that corpus of information and
that feels pretty significant. So, if
people aren't influencing those, that
could be pretty pretty negative. And to
Lily's point, I mean, digital PR, uh, I
mean, even like thinking within the idea
of digital PR, depends on how you define
it, is like performance PR, like getting
those listings on is it an e-commerce
roundup that's listing out your product
and it's an aim. They're getting paid by
it for that listing uh, on these major
major media publishers, but it's
informing the models very clearly. And
then on the B2B side, it could be you
could be on Forbes, you could be on
CNET. Uh and those same performance
models uh can be done through PR
potentially depends on how you work it
as a company. But that feels much
different in my opinion than where we
were.
>> Yeah. from that off- page perspective as
well. There, you know, may be articles
that really don't have any significance
for your SEO campaign, but you notice,
hey, this article on, you know,
business.com is being cited for, you
know, all of the, you know, a lot of the
B2B uh queries that, you know, a company
may um have, right? then that article
suddenly becomes something that you're
placing new focus on versus if you were
just doing an SEO campaign. You know,
those sources might not matter to you as
much. So, just surfacing things like
that where there's these, you know,
important pieces of content that are
influencing a lot of what the LLM have
to say. I think things like that are
coming to the surface more for our
clients as well.
>> Yeah, totally. I think these are I I I
underline all of these examples. I think
they're great. Um, other things that you
might not would you wouldn't probably do
for classical SEO but more for
optimization stuff like markdown pages,
right? These are working phenomenally
well. Um, pages just for LLMs um, with
no intention of users ever landing
there, JSON that contains keywords or
positioning type of stuff, right?
There's a bunch of ways that you can
infuse more content into LLMs with no
intention of users landing there with
surprisingly good results. Um, we
mentioned the whole kind of offsite
Reddit type of stuff. And also like
sure, you could, you know, you could
argue, yeah, classical SEO, you also
want to engage on Reddit because Reddit
shows up so prominently in search. I
don't know. Um, but that and then of
course YouTube stuff. Uh, I wouldn't
underrate that either. social networks,
LinkedIn. I mean, Lily ran some really
cool public experiments showing how
quickly you can get cited in LM just by
posting something on LinkedIn that
already exists, right? So, uh I think
there are a bunch of things that you
wouldn't do from a traditional SEO
perspective. Uh that explains that kind
of 10% or maybe more difference to me.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean I think that
the the affiliate the brand mentions
right these are very new concepts within
large language model optimization
because you know large language models
don't necessarily follow links as
closely as the traditional like SEO
components like would so when it comes
to the practical like implementation of
this 10% you know off-page offsite brand
marketing stuff are there any tangible
tactics that anybody would be willing to
share in terms of, you know, I spun up a
Reddit bot and had it, you know, monitor
specific subreddits and comment when,
you know, specific topics or keywords
were were mentioned. Any sort of
specific tactics from an off- page
perspective that you all have seen
really work?
>> I mean, Lily's probably going to laugh
at this, but listicles I remember your
you had a post around uh listical
exchanges or the new you know link
exchanges but I think we're seeing that
and um you know as well like just on a
more kind of white hat um approach to
that one of the things that I've talked
about in SEO notebook is specifically
looking at the sponsored posts that your
competitors are sponsoring on that are
getting that visibility in LLMs and just
making sure that you approach those same
sites for those you know even if it's
real sponsor
um you're still going to get that
visibility. So that's that's one that we
like to put into practice. And you know,
if another company uh your competitor is
paying for that link, there's no reason
why you can't get on that listicle as
well. So that's just a bit bit more of a
white hat way to go about that.
>> Yeah, just to jump in there. I mean, I
think listen, listicles work, right?
They're absolutely working right now. I
think a lot of when I have certain like
allergic reactions to certain tactics
that people are using right now, it's
literally because of my history in the
space and it's because of where we left
off as an SEO industry right before
ChatGpt was launched. Right? A lot of
companies got hit for jumping on the
bandwagon and doing certain tactics that
Google later determined are
manipulative. Right now, we're in this
window where I think Google hasn't
cracked down on certain things. OpenAI
certainly hasn't shown that they're
necessarily going to crack down on
certain things, but I see the writing on
the wall, right? I saw the writing on
the wall before the helpful content
update and then lo and behold, many many
sites got affected by that. I'm just I'm
concerned about that happening. So
that's I'm very riskaverse. I think many
other people are, you know, much more
willing to take risks. But I just think
that we're in this interesting window
right now and including, you know,
paytoplay like sponsored posts where I
think it works. It certainly works right
now for AI search. I'd be surprised if a
year or two from now, you could still
see pay-to-play, you know, content
working as well as it currently works in
AI organic results, right? And same for
listicles.
>> Yeah, I think there's some something to
be said about kind of paying to be
mentioned in listicles, but something
that also works surprisingly well, um
maybe Steve, you said it. Forgive me if
I misattribute this. Uh or don't have
the right citation and hallucinate the
citation. um is uh advertorials. Uh you
can just sponsor articles on publishers
and they'll be picked up like regular
articles. LMS don't differentiate
between sponsored content and organic
content. Um same with syndication. You
can just syndicate out to to publishers
and uh LM won't care really. So if you
want to quickly solidify
a something uh in an LLM, you just pay
to syndicate out. So uh and I do agree
with Lily. I I would be surprised if
that works forever. Uh but for now, you
can put the pedal to the metal.
>> Yeah, I think it all depends on, you
know, the the um the reputation of the
publication, right? So, um that's going
to, you know, obviously like do that,
you know, cautiously and don't just, you
know, insert $80, uh listical on some
no-name site, but um you know, there's
plenty of sites that have and also
disclose that as well. So I think uh you
know it's important to kind of balance
that with you know your common sense.
>> Yeah. My my only soft push back on that
that I I've been thinking about with
affiliate marketing in particular in
competitive industries
the people who can afford to pay there
are actually correlated pretty strongly
with actually strong companies. Like if
you're if you're advertising on best CRM
software, you need to be converting at a
high clip for those publishers to
maintain you in those listings. So it
even though it's a paid model, I think
of it almost like bidding on car
insurance as a keyword in PPC. It's all
Geico. It's all progressive. It's all
the people you've heard of. And that's
because they have really efficient CRO,
well-known brand name, high
click-through rate. And those same
dynamics play out on sophisticated
affiliate pages as well that I think do
actually correlate with uh need being
warranted to be returned in LLMs. Maybe
not in the longtail industries where
it's a could be a little bit more
manipulated for sure, but at the kind of
short tail, it the winners win there and
the winners get listed. So, I think it's
kind of difficult to to to be uh on the
up and up a newer business and and show
up there from what I've seen.
>> Appreciate the thoughts. We talked about
some off- page, but let's let's talk
about some on page. It also intersects
with a question that we have from Kate
who asks, "What kind of pages would we
build out for LLMs only? What would
those look like?" I'm going to add some
more stuff to it. Are there differences
in the onpage aspect of AI search
optimization? Whether it's technical
SEO, whether it's content strategy. I
think I saw an interesting experiment if
you will from Pep like the conversion XL
Winter CEO and founder where he like
created a like an LLM page that like was
like this is when Winter was founded.
This is our you know what we do. like is
there a change in how people should be
thinking about onpage optimization
whether it comes from a content or
technical perspective?
>> Yeah, I recently posted something on
LinkedIn to the same aim. Uh I think
it's most applicable in B2B around the
idea of product page or ICP mapping. My
thought process there for for people in
B2B and this is a classical strategy for
many more sophisticated u advanced
companies is to have industry pages,
company size pages, role pages. So we're
talking CRM software that could be CRM
for healthcare, CRM for enterprise, CRM
for operations. Having that full map of
who you service well hypothetically
could lead to LM's referencing you when
the personalization dial gets turned up
or when it's already turned up as it is.
And I think also use cases use case
pages as well. So the same variants you
cover every use case that people would
be searching and these maybe were
classical search. They're generally have
longtail and I think they're just good
best practice for B2B independent of LM.
So that's a reason to do it um
independent of that. But that's one
thing we've been thinking about more
often as a potentially richly rewarded
LM strategy.
>> Yeah, I actually um totally agree with
that, Ross. I have a Google sheet that
we built at AMSI that I will share in
the chat after leaving this comment uh
about um something that I've been
sharing in my recent talks that really
talks about that. It's basically a sheet
that talks about all the different not
only pages, but like information that
you should consider adding to your site.
I don't know if it's necessarily for AI
search because I think a lot of this
stuff is really helpful for consumers as
well. It's really just that a lot of
companies haven't necessarily thought
about providing this content in really
clear terms. You know, sometimes you'll
it'll either be missing from the website
and they'll be relying on a third party
like Better Business Bureau or whatever
it is to have that business information
or maybe they've written it in like
marketing speak where it doesn't really
make sense for an LLM. So I do agree
that like making sure that this content
is on your site in a way that's legible
for not only LLMs but for consumers as
well is extremely important. So it's
just a checklist you can follow. Um but
I I wouldn't necessarily think of this
as like writing it only for machines. I
do think that you should consider that
humans have a good experience reading it
as well.
>> Yeah. I mean, uh, I I've started doing
some coaching and one of my students,
um, owns a personal injury, uh, law
firm, SEO company, and, you know, we
were asking about, uh, one of the brands
that he works with and and what kind of
practice areas they're involved with.
And it, you know, got maybe like 40% of
them. And his question was, you know,
why this is all clearly clearly marked
in my navigation, like how come it's not
picking that up, right? So now your
homepage has to be a little bit more
clear in terms of who you serve, your
ICP, uh you know, in that case, what
practice areas, um, you know, do you
service because the the homepage is
going to be more easily parsed than, um,
the LLM going into the navigation and
trying to figure that out themselves.
Um, another area which is kind of like,
you know, back to 10, 15 years ago is
putting more information in your footer
as well. Like a lot of that stuff was
also getting picked up. So I think Will
Reynolds had a you know great post about
how he put you know his client retention
numbers for example in his footer and
you know saw that pop up in chat GPT the
next day when you asked about seir right
so I think a little bit more homepage
clarity and you know also talking about
you know what are those deal breakers
for your ICP putting more of that
information on the homepage uh to help
pe that helps people make buying
decisions that then gets reflected in
those branded sort of exploration
queries on LLM search is Um, you know,
we just have to spell things out a
little bit more clearly at this point.
>> Yeah, totally agree. Clear associations
between entities and all that good
stuff. Um, these grounding type of pages
that were mentioned about winter. Um,
they can have an impact, but again, um,
it it always depends a bit on like how
much confidence a model already has
about a certain topic. So, you know, if
you're like you're not going to all of a
sudden become known for running shoes if
you're Nike just because you have a
single page on your site. Like that's
been established for a long time across
many sources. But if there is something
that you know where the model has fewer
anchor points or no anchor points and
you want to slowly establish that, you
can influence it with um LM only pages
on your on your site. You can also by
the way cloak uh for LLMs and just
include a lot more content in that
cloaked version and they will be uh
accepting that uh within the content uh
sorry content token uh sorry context
token window that they have. So there's
a bunch of stuff that you can do on that
front. But then the other thing that I
think I would also want to add is what
you write about what you create content
for. And so I think one of the biggest
shifts uh is that people are searching
longer prompts and therefore they're
searching much more specific things and
we've been trained for the last two
decades to create content for shorter
search queries. Right? So I think
there's a big opportunity now to think
about what are all the longer very
specific prompts that people or your
target audience your ICPS are are
looking for and do you actually have a
specific answer to that in your content.
So, if you're, I don't know, Quickbooks,
right, and you're in accounting and you
uh maybe target construction companies,
like do you actually talk specifically
about certain questions that people
might have who are working at
construction companies are looking for
an accounting solution? Right? It's like
the very fine great detail of
information that can often make the
decision for customers to buy or not.
Like, do you have that on your site or
somewhere else on the web?
amazing discussions and I think there's
there's a lot of interesting things
where it sounds like the entities and
the content that you're constructing is
meant for obviously users and agents,
but trying to color in some more context
to help the AI agents understand more
about your brand. Before we dive more
into the content side, which I'm very
interested in talking about, I do have a
couple of questions around the technical
side, I'm going to blend a couple of
audience questions together. Number one,
Grace asks, "How does everyone feel
about LLM.txt
files?" Yay or nay? And that's going to
combo with what Nicola asks, which is,
"Google has announced it's exploring
ways to allow sites to opt out of AI
overviews and AI mode. Would you advise
this for sites that rely on traffic or
do you think it will come with a cost?
So technical stuff. Is there anything
like llm.txt or blocking Googlebot from
uh allowing AI overviews and AI mode to
access your site? What do you all think?
>> Look, I think people, you know, no LLM
has come out and said that they're using
LLM's TXT, so it's not higher on our
priority list. But then, you know,
there's also been arguments as to like
how easy it is to do and it's there as
um you know, a half an hour activity for
a junior person to potentially, you
know, or whoever you trust with
obviously like just don't publish, you
know, but some CMS's are allowing that
to to um you know, be more automated.
So, um I think it's all about your
priorities and what else do you have to
tackle as obviously we're IO so we're
going to say it depends but um as of
right now uh we don't have any you know
major large language model um coming out
and saying that they use that. So um at
this point we're not really prioritizing
that for our agency but yeah.
>> Yeah I agree. I mean, if you have
infinite time, sure, do it. But it felt
like that was originally in aim of like
this broadened LM universe and if things
are consolidating down to Gemini and
Chat GBT for the most part, just don't
know if it's really going to get a high
amount of use, but may not be hard to to
put it together. So, if you got time,
probably doesn't hurt.
>> Yeah, I think that's our perspective on
it as well. you know, if clients really
want it right, you know, we can help
build it. Um, but we're certainly not
prioritizing that for the dozens of
clients that we have as an agency. We
have many other fires all the time that
we need to focus on um for LMS.txt. So,
I think listen, like, you know, it's
interesting that Google's come out like
10 times and reiterated how much they're
not using it, you know, and then at one
point there was like an LLM.txt on some
Google site and it got attention from
the SEO industry and then they like went
and deleted it. I just [laughter] like,
okay, that's interesting. But yeah,
listen, there's no harm in creating it
if you want to create it. I just don't
think there's any evidence that it's
really being used yet. Um, to your
question, Bernard, about like blocking
the content, that's that's literally
brand new information as of today,
right? It sounds like Google is finally
getting some legal pressure, at least
from the UK, where they might need to
provide ways for site owners to opt out
of AI mode and AI overviews. That's a
really big decision for companies to
make, right? It's a bit of a like a
prisoner's dilemma. Um, I think for most
sites it probably is in your best
interest to allow yourself to at least
be in AI overviews because that's still
where the bulk of organic search traffic
is right now.
>> What's interesting is that it seems like
lm.ext is not I mean we know it's not
used. I want to be clear on that. I'm
I'm uh bearish. Uh but it's being
crawled. Um so that may inspire you in
any way. Uh but uh that's interesting
that the other stuff that I call out
often for technical uh SEO
considerations is um rendering even
though like Google renders mostly fine
unless you have severe client side
rendering issues but um chat can
struggle with that more um or usually
does struggle with that more um and then
there's something to be said also about
server response time right um don't
forget that um again LLM are incredibly
sensitive to any friction they encounter
when retrieving from the web. Uh and so
even a you know if you have a severely
slow server response time that makes it
harder for uh LMS to even fetch your
basic HTML. So that is something that I
wouldn't obsess over but certainly um
take another look at especially for
pages you care about the most.
>> Right. Yeah. I think it's still TBD
[laughter] in terms of, you know, the
importance of of doing that. And I think
with that, let's dive into content. So,
I think there's been a lot of
interesting studies that have been done
surrounding content, right? I think some
people are looking at common crawl in
terms of the authority a website has for
you know the topics that it talks about
and how that is being weighted or
influenced within the training data
which we know as the fundamental you
know pool of data that the AI models are
accessing to form an answer and we also
know that there is some sort of a
grounding budget where I think You know,
Dan's recent study said about 2,000
words are being used to allocate the
model to perform some searches and then
make some adjustments to their, you
know, knowledge of that particular
topic. In this world, I I find it
interesting to ask at least the the
starter question, how do you think about
affecting training data? Right? it
training data seems to be the gold
standard of what these models are being
you know trained on and so is there any
specific at least highle or maybe even
low-level tactics that you all are
thinking about to say okay I want to get
more of my client site or my own site
into the training data and I'm thinking
about it like this
>> I would say like yes um I think the Best
way to do it from what I've seen so far
is to make sure that your brand and your
content is synthesized across as many
platforms and channels and you know
sources as possible and to take a piece
of content that you have and to
repurpose it. This is something that
like Ross Simmons for example has been
talking about for years. You know I saw
him talk about this at Moscon in like
2016 or something. um you know to have a
piece of content and to make sure that
you're repurposing it now not only in
text format but in multimodal you know
video audio image format as well so that
your brand is kind of recognized across
all the different sources that a large
language model might be looking to me I
feel like that's the most effective
tactic we've seen so far
>> yeah I mean I think it also just becomes
about building your brand and how
important that is is actually could be
considered a defensive tactic as well um
anthrop Propic released a paper I think
3 months ago or so where they um
expressly said that it takes 250
documents to poison an LLM. So if you're
not building your brand you're
potentially leaving um some an open door
for somebody else to create you know and
alter your brand narrative. So I think
you know as a as a company right you're
publishing on LinkedIn you're posting
YouTube videos you're publishing on
Facebook on uh social you're you know
actively um promoting yourself to get
more reviews on G2 trust pilot etc that
you know all of your branding activity
really matters for what the models learn
about you um both from content that you
create and content that your customers
create about too.
>> Yeah, I think it's a really good point.
Uh I totally agree with brand and like
some of the things we mentioned earlier
like being mentioned across the web on
authoritative sites and all that kind of
stuff, right? So you can probably
influence it with syndication,
uh PR, right? Like all the good stuff. I
think there's two interesting questions
about um training data. One is how do
you measure whether you're included in
training data? uh you could look up the
common crawl um uh index and see how
often you're mentioned, but the
challenge is that LM have they're
they're lead like they're they're
changing the training sources over time,
right? So every new model could have a
different mix of training data and where
it comes from. Early models maybe more
UGC and maybe more books and then later
models more Wikipedia, right? So there's
a lot of fluctuation that is hard to
trace over time. Um, so just because
you're part of common crawl doesn't mean
you're automatically part of the
training data. Two, um, LLMs have been
proven to be really bad at attributing
any sources in the training data. So the
question is, do you even want to be part
of training data? And I'm not sure about
that to be completely honest. Again,
it's hard for us to detect the causality
here of I've been more included in the
training data, hence I've been more
visible in LMS, hence I've seen more
customers. I'm not sure if we're ever
going to get there, but if you're not
attributed as the source for uh
response, then why would you want to be
there, right? You could argue about
being kind of, you know, the brand um uh
entities and like being uh um classified
and categorized correctly as a brand for
certain things. But um who knows if
that's not even possible in in other
ways. So big big question mark. I
haven't found that, you know, like I
haven't found the connection there to
say we want to like we can measure that
we've been part of the training data
because every model updates mixes the
cards.
Uh Kevin stole my point. I think I agree
completely on on that of uh what I've
seen it almost seems influencing rag is
is more impactful generally because we
may not be returned on the training
data. uh seemingly is used for
moreformational type searches that it's
it's always going to do but we're like
unlikely to get returned. So is it the
kind of more commercial queries where
they're making uh retrieval happen that
were more likely to be mentioned and
cited potentially where more of our
energy should be spent. Unknown um but
yeah my my gut reaction is that that is
the case. Um, I'm going to share a
resource in the um chat here that um was
actually another adaptation. I I follow
Will Reynolds about a bunch of stuff,
but um Will released a sheet that uh
uses the API to retrieve um answers for
branded questions. Uh we kind of put our
own spin on that, made it a little bit
easier to use, but originally got the
idea from Will. Um, so you know that may
be a way to measure you know how you're
in the training data if that API is not
necessarily connected to the web trying
to corroborate its answers. So, you
know, that might be um you know,
something that you you want to try. And
from our uh testing with it, uh it
generally reflects, you know, what the
public thinks about a product, right?
So, um many of maybe my audience at
least knows that we work with
FreshBooks, right? So, Freshbooks, you
know, doubles has doubled down on
invoicing for 10 years. And when we look
at, you know, them in invoicing
questions compared to general accounting
questions, we're seeing them um, you
know, be a lot more visible for those
queries that, you know, they've pushed
so hard over the the years and other
sites have talked about them as well. So
folks can, you know, try that sheet out
and kind of get a sense of, uh, you
know, when it comes to the model and,
you know, non-web- based API, um, it's a
good way to, you know, get a kind of at
least, you know, finger to the wind
about it. Awesome.
Yeah, I was doing some moderator stuff,
so don't mind me. Um, I know we have
some questions that deal with this sort
of stuff, but I'm going to pocket some
of those for a bit of rapid fire near
the end because I do want to talk about
this retrieval, augmented generation, or
grounding with search layer. Right?
We're oftentimes finding that okay
influencing the training data you know
it's either rife with mystery because
you know who decides what enters common
crawl data or not and also we just have
no idea how these different models are
weighting common crawl versus Reddit
versus you know whatever else that they
may be doing but as SEOs we do have the
practical skills and abilities to
influence search results
which we know is being used to influence
the retrieval augmented generation of
what the AI is giving back to the end
user for that what are attributes of
content that you're finding are being
you know pulled in more to influence AI
responses and are you doing anything
different on those pages right I know
some people talk about having uh clear
key takeaways or you know too long don't
read you know obviously putting in a lot
of citations or sources or statistics
into their article or you know creating
markdown files maybe uploading PDFs to
seem more authoritative.
How are y'all thinking about the
grounding with search layer and how to
influence the model to represent or to
respond with a client's brand or your
brand?
>> Well, I I think one of the things we're
seeing in the um system prompts that,
you know, have been leaked is this focus
on recency. So, making sure that your um
most important content has been recently
updated. uh we're even seeing in super
low competition kind of longtail you
know best x software January 2026 you
know working right that that's you know
all subject to change of course but I
think um if we look at some of those
leaked system prompts which you can
actually google you know LLM leaked
system prompts find the GitHub and dig
into that yourself we're seeing recency
being um one of the uh um things that
the models are favoring when when
they're trying to answer a
Yeah, totally agree on freshness. Like
anything you can do to signal freshness
has a absurd effect on visibility.
Again, at least with synthetic prompts.
Not to get down the rabbit hole, but uh
that that matters a ton. And then uh I
do I am I'm a I'm a big fan of FAQs.
Again, we've been through that. When was
it like before Google took away the rich
snippets? Uh, I think that is back in a
certain way and it works in my
experience. Now, a big um gotcha that I
learned from the Microsoft um AO
documentation is you don't want to hide
the FAQs in an accordion. It seems that
LM struggle with accordions and tabs. So
you want to have them plain text folded
out have the wrestling fight with the
product marketer or who says it's a bad
experience and then uh leave them just
open text no accordion um and don't hold
back you know I mean
8 10 FAQs or so in my opinion uh the
more the better um because few like few
people make it down there anyway right
so I might have a bit of an aggressive
stance on this um and uh the whole kind
of you know uh way of having clear
headings and and clear writing. I think
like I'm I'm currently working on
another analysis of a large data set
that once again shows how much of a
difference it makes if you use would
should could or if you say R and is and
all that kind of definitive stuff,
right? So, as much as you can back up,
which to your point, Bernard, I I think
like adding as many um uh kind of um
evidence or or or uh um sources to your
claims and stating them in the text,
right? So, if you reference a study, say
the name of the study, the authors, the
year, right? Like, don't just link to
it, but say it. Uh the more of that you
can build in and therefore make more of
your writing deterministic, uh the
better it works.
Yeah, I agree with all the the points
above. Um, I definitely think recency is
probably disproportionately, you know,
impacting it's a factor that
disproportionately impacts performance
above and beyond most other factors
right now. It seems like the LLM are
very hungry for that recent data. I
mean, it's also, you know, search
engines that tend to prioritize a lot of
new and recent content for certain
topics. It's QDF that's been around the
SEO space for a very long time. Um, I've
seen with some content that I've written
on our company blog like seven years ago
that tends to rank really well, you
know, visit visiting that page annually
and making sure it's still up to date
and then kind of updating the date
modified is working really well for LLM
visibility. I'd be very careful about
artificial refreshening. You know,
that's a spam policy Google's had for a
long time, which is basically that if
you're literally artificially refreshing
something for the sake of posting a new
date, you can get in trouble for SEO.
They can detect that pretty easily. So,
I'd be careful with that. So, make sure
you're doing real content changes. The
other thing I'll add is posting on
social media tends to work extremely
well in some cases. If you have a pretty
robust following on LinkedIn and you
post something on LinkedIn, whether it's
a post or or a LinkedIn pulse article,
that can show up in AI search in like
hours, sometimes like minutes, which is
really crazy. And same with Reddit and
YouTube and other social sites. Um, and
then another thing I've noticed that
I've been really surprised about is when
I post or some of my teammates post on
like pretty like high authority sites,
including the AMS blog. I think you know
SEO Google's treating our blog as a high
authority site on these topics. When we
publish something and it we share it on
social and it gets some traction, we see
it in LLM's within a few hours. So, I've
been really surprised. I don't always
see that happening, but I do see that
happening more for kind of like high
authority sites in their niche.
Uh, I'll share a resource as well. Um, I
totally agree with with that stuff as
well, Lily. I think the weight of your
social account also, you know, lends it
some credibility and we're also seeing
those pop up in AIO's very quickly and
um, you know, referenced in chat GPT
longer term uh, for the right queries.
Um, what Kevin mentioned around like,
you know, declarative sentences, very
um, you know, focused uh, language. I'm
seeing a lot of the techniques that we
use to optimize with featured snippets
also working very well in AIO's. Um I
created a GPT called Snippet Brain. It's
totally free to use. Um a lot of folks
are having success with that in
optimizing for their AIOS. So I'll share
that link in the comments as well.
>> Awesome. Ross, go ahead.
>> Yeah. Uh quickly, one of one of the on
the freshness piece, two two notes. One
reason we love data so much is if if
you're doing data journalism, digital PR
at any kind of cadence, it gives you
unique data that can then power
freshness of the rest of the site. Uh so
that is a justified reason to update old
content because now you're adding value
to that content in addition to building
authority, brand awareness, something
that's differentiated for your brand in
the world of AI. Uh we're calling that
like the data flywheel. You can build an
asset, reuse it, update things, do it
again. uh quite powerful. Um the only
other thought Kevin on yours I I'd maybe
at least say it might be worth AB
testing that I remember it makes me
think back of the the FAQ thing that I'm
gating that um or sorry that not
accordioning it my it reminds me of we
used to recommend adding three plus post
uh on landing pages in B2B and we'd
often get that push back of we're going
to detract from conversion rate in doing
so and it was understandable. It's like
if it it's uh self-service SAS, maybe
they they're willing to convert fast
enough uh such that we may actually
detract um from from changes like that.
So maybe on those super longtail product
page mapping and maybe it's still a win,
but that's that was just my uh my fear
in that that thought at all. I'm curious
your thoughts on it.
>> Well, we're that surprisingly 45 minutes
has gone by. I do have one general topic
that I know everybody's been asking
about that I would want the panelists to
all think about which is tracking right
we started the conversation earlier this
morning or afternoon where you know the
10% difference between SEO and this AI
search stuff that's going on is around
the
output the outcomes the goals that
people are expecting right SEO is about
traffic But AI search is now this kind
of amorous amorphous uh state of AI
visibility. And you have so many
different factors like mentions and
citations and branded search impressions
that act as indicators of success. But I
think where we as an industry still need
to figure out is what does success
actually look like? I'm going to break
this out into two distinct sections.
Number one is going to be around prompt
tracking itself and number two is going
to be around the you know the actual
metrics of okay what are the KPIs that
teams should be thinking about and
focusing on. So number one is prompt
tracking. It combos well with a question
that we had asked around um chat GPT. It
was chat GPT is starting to do ads. you
know, what are the odds that we're going
to finally get some clear prompt volume
data? But I'm just going to tackle that
on tack on my own followup to that to
say, how are you all thinking about
creating prompts to track for your
clients or yourself? And is there some
semblance of volume that you're using to
inform those prompts or are you looking
at it or thinking about it differently?
I think using search data as a a parable
for prompt data is probably the most
instructive thing. And I think that kind
of ICP mapping concept has value
independent of search volume as well.
Although ideally all of those have
search volume um anyways, but our
general recommendation is to like look
at your core product pages of all types
at it. What is the best X and kind of
have that full inventory of all all the
products and use cases and ICPS as we
talked about and then tracking against
that and potentially you build on that
from a longtail add that to your corpus
to further evaluate um in terms of the
prompts we choose. Anyways, Couple
things to say on that. Um definitely uh
like search volume but also just intent
volume. So share another resource. Um
I've created a claude project where I
actually share the full prompt for it.
And what that does is aggregates the um
uh like keywords that you see in Google
search console and uh sums all the
impressions so that you can see the
intent volume for an entire group of
keywords. So helpful proxy kind of you
know um translating that to what people
might search in an LLM you know given
the absence of that data from those
providers. Um but another thing that I
think we have kind of a unique take on
at Notebook agency is that um we're not
just tracking like the um branded
mentions in prompts but tracking like
what the c what the LLM are actually
saying versus what our sales great
answer to questions about the brand are.
Right? So looking at um you know things
like what integrations do you offer?
What c how about your customer support?
Uh you know pricing in B2B that's always
a tricky one right uh but people are
asking these questions of the LLM. And
what we're doing is actually you know
interrogating those same very
bottomfunnel buyer questions about the
brand and comparing what the LLM says
versus you know if you were to ask a
salesperson at that company you know
what would their answer be? So actually
looking at the quality of answers when
it comes to um questions about a brand
uh versus just looking at you know
mentions for the same types of
non-branded queries that people are
searching on Google. Um I'll share the
uh the link to the intent volume bot. So
if folks want to try that as well.
>> Go ahead Kevin. [laughter]
>> You go. You go go Lily. Um, yeah. I
mean, I think one thing to add, I think
that, you know, tying like the idea of
like prompt volumes to SEO, you know,
keyword research data that we already
have, especially directly from Google, I
think is right now still the best
approach kind of as like a proxy for how
much demand there is for certain topics.
Um, just because I think, you know,
right now, obviously, a lot of the LLM
tracking tools are trying to integrate
the these ideas around like prompt
volumes and everything, but if you read
the methodology, I think it still leaves
a lot to be desired and that's not their
fault. That's just lack of access to
data. you know, so I think like one one
company that I see that I like the way
they're doing it is PKI. Uh they have
kind of like a meter for how much volume
they think a certain prompt has relative
to other prompts. It's just like a
scale. It's not an exact number. So I
think that's an interesting way of
thinking about it. But generally
speaking, I would still look at SEO, you
know, keyword research data for those
volume numbers. Um, and then another
thing to add is like with generating
prompts and looking at which prompts to
track, I think paid search data is still
a really good source of information. You
know, if you have conversion data,
search query data coming directly from
paid, that gives you a really good
understanding of how people are actually
converting on your site. So, tying that
back into which prompts should be
generate about which topics, I think, is
really effective.
>> That's also a good question. Um, I mean,
I agree with everything that was said. I
think there's something also to be said
about qualitative customer data from
conversations with company either from
sales or customer success. Um but the
other thing I wanted to address uh
Bernard is kind of you know the hope
that we all have that openai gives us
prompt volume or that maybe Google
shares more uh longtail queries. Um and
I'm not so hopeful anymore um especially
given their CPM model. I mean they are
being open AI but given the fact that
they're going with a CPM model that
makes me less hopeful that they would
ever publish prompt volume and to be
fair I I think it makes no sense because
uh most prompts are too long that
they're being searched by the same
person twice or sorry but different
people twice. So um I I think
aggregating on the topic or intent level
makes a lot more sense but uh unless
OpenAI pivots their advertising model I
don't think they would right they're
they're following much more the like
meta advertising model which is user
behaved sorry user behavior based based
on on like what you uh what you like
rather than Google which is intent based
which is kind of what you're prompting
or searching for. So I have mixed
feelings about that one. I do hope that
Google eventually um gives us a bit more
indication but I I very much agree with
Lily's point that um ads in AI mode
there has to be some reporting uh on
that and my my hope is that we can make
use of that to uh kind of want like
prioritize where we want to be visible
and where it matters.
>> Awesome discussion. Uh we have a lot of
questions. I want to get to answering
them. And so I'm going to turn the
format now into a rapid fire. I'm just
going to select one panelist and ask you
one question and then try to answer it
in, you know, two to three sentences. So
the top most upvoted question and go
upvote the questions to, you know, give
us an indication of what you want to
see. Gerald asks, "What should we be
using as SEO or AEO KPIs in 2026?" I'm
going to hand this one off to you, Lily.
>> Thanks. It's the hardest question. Um, I
guess conversions and revenue, right?
But, uh, you know, it's it's really
difficult. I think these different LLM
tracking tools have different metrics
that they're using, which makes it hard
to kind of like average out across
different tools. But, you know, I would
say come up with your own measurements
for like AI visibility and just kind of
define what that means with the client.
Maybe you're pulling from a few
different data sources. Maybe you're
looking at branded impression growth
over time, like brand lift. I think it's
on agencies and consultants now to kind
of come up with their own definition for
those metrics and work with clients to
kind of convey what they mean.
>> Perfect. We have now two questions that
are very similar, anonymous and sad.
They ask, you know, are AI visibility
measurement tools outside of traditional
SEO tools worth pursuing? Would focusing
on LLM referral traffic alone be a
mistake for the brand?
Steve, what do you think?
>> Yeah, I think we have to look at like
the prompt um tracking regarding
mentions as highly directional. Um, you
can also look at just the amount of
times the LLMs are hitting your uh
website, not only clicking, right? So,
if you're analyzing log files, I think
Screaming Frog has a great tutorial on
that. But I, again, to Lily's point, um,
talking with your clients and, you know,
figuring out, uh, a metric that works
for them as well. I think ultimately we
do want to look at revenue, but is it
last touch, is it first touch, is it,
you know, somewhere in between. Um, I
think client communication is more
important than ever. And you know, if
your clients aren't sharing their um
data with you, you're never really going
to know what's working.
>> Perfect. Next question we have, Nicola.
She asks, "In Google Search, AI
overviews has confirmed that they're
going to do a follow-up question after
clicking on the show more button, but
that follow-up question would take you
directly into AI mode. What advice would
you be giving to publishers in light of
this?" Kevin, this one's for you.
>> Yeah, it's so interesting. um they're
still pushing hard on AI mode even
though they beat Jupit but anyway
different point um to answer your
question directly um I I think you know
it's been kind of the same advice for
the last couple years even before AI
which is to build more of a first-party
audience right email subscribers uh
community uh events uh all that kind of
stuff I think as a publisher you don't
want to rely on any channel um even you
know uh even after uh Facebook uh
crashed for publishers. You don't want
to rely on any channel uh for your
survival. And I think unfortunately uh
Google traffic has gotten in that same
category. So, you know, obviously do
your best to optimize for discover and
top news and all these good things, but
at the end of the day, you need to
kind of make the most out of every click
that you still get and and funnel people
in these environments where you have
more control. you know, less reliant on
uh on a Google algorithm.
>> Yeah, totally. All right. Uh Alec asks,
"How are you dealing with LLM
attribution in terms of pipeline lead
generation?" Ross, I'm going to ask you
this.
>> Yeah. uh recommend having
selfattribution for B2B if you have any
kind of form submit um collection or if
you have to ask uh getting that that
information of where they originally
found you I think is is largely
instructive to to see where it came
from. Um, if you don't have that in kind
of your lead forms, lead submits, it
definitely is pretty blurry and referral
traffic from Jet GBT is is not enough
given there's so many unlin mentions h
happening. Uh, that's muddying the
picture. But if you can have that
attribution would get that into your
lead flow for sure. Conversion flow.
>> Conversion flow. All right. Um, I'm
still trying to digest some of these, so
I'm going to skip to a question that I
think this is from an earlier
discussion, right? We were talking about
how uh to influence training data it
makes sense to you know publish once
distribute everywhere. So the question
is how much new emphasis are you or your
teams putting on expanding the
distribution marketing offerings right
posting to social media PPC YouTube so
on and so forth. Um when are we running
marketing agencies versus SEO agencies
and what are your thoughts on this
Steve? What do you think?
Yeah, I mean like we're selective with
the brands we work with if they're not
already doing some of that themselves,
right? So, um I think what we're going
to see is um more um emphasis on working
crossf functionally with clients um you
know PR uh product um help
documentation. I mean it really has to
influence the entire website and the
entire teams that we work with. Um if
the company is not actively um you know
crossf functional like that I think it's
going to be really hard to survive.
>> Perfect. Uh I have a question here for
Lily. Why do you think we are seeing so
much spam in discover? It looks like
serious link manipulation. How important
do you think link building is in 2026?
>> Um I think Google discover has always
struggled with spam much more than
traditional search. Um, also more spammy
content tends to get a lot of engagement
in there. So, it kind of like is
self-reinforcing.
Um, I don't know how much of that is
with link building and how much I mean
there's a lot of manipulative stuff
people are doing to get in there. But, I
think Google recently acknowledged the
spam problem in Discover about three or
four months ago, which I thought was
interesting. So, just because something
works now doesn't mean it'll necessarily
work forever.
>> Totally. All right. Uh, let's see here.
I'm still trying to understand some of
these.
Desh asks, "We've evolved everything
from the content layout, SEO, and a lot
more, but not ranking on Google." Uh,
that's too that's too generic. Um, all
right. This one, what is everyone's take
on automation in SEO teams and agency
teams? So, you know, in light of all of
these AI tools that we have, has have
you been successfully able to automate
parts of your workflow? Ross,
what do you what do you got?
>> Uh, yeah. Yes, we have within within
reason. I'd say it's kind of making the
output better. It's not replacing people
um really, but we've been able to kind
of get more volume out of keyword
research than we had previously, which
then dovetales into a higher average
output in terms of the topics we select
by using AI and grounding around brand
brand documents to to do that in the
best way. And and there are there are
elements of the content creation process
that are increasingly commoditized like
I think um line editing is just less
value additive um on average and uh
those data the data kind of update piece
I think AI is pretty good at suggesting
where that data can go on your content.
So we've been using that as kind of a
workflow that cuts down our update time.
Um but yeah still generally warn against
pressing a button to generate content.
Uh, I think that that it's a race to the
bottom.
>> All right, final question cuz we're
right up on the hour. Ecta asks, "What
kind of experimentations are you guys
doing on a regular basis on different
LLMs to get an idea around what steps to
take, Kevin, this one's for you?"
[clears throat] Um, some things I can't
talk about. Uh, some more things that I
can't talk about. Um but I mean um
this is prime time for testing. Um, I
think there's a lot to be uncovered and
so anything from again on page content
changes to uh, you know, design changes,
uh, URL changes, snippet changes. I
mean, honestly, I think everything is
fair game. And so, um, I'm trying to
test as much as possible and also take
in account like what site we're talking
about. Is it a large aggregator site? Is
it a smaller site that leads more
editorial? Uh there are obviously
massive differences. There's something
to be said about the geoloccal the
language that the site operates in. Um
and I what what I'm trying to get to
with my clients is to to increase the
cycle time of experiments like how can
we run as many experiments as possible
while while keeping them statistically
uh uh relevant and significant. Uh but
there's there's whole trails in my
opinion to be followed about any test
right now. Right. So for example, let's
say you test uh adding the current year
to the URL. Okay, cool. Uh now maybe you
see an uptake in citations and mentions
uh maybe even from organic search. Cool.
Now you want to build on top of that
test. Now you want to see okay um you
know uh does it matter which topic this
is added to? Is there a difference
between topics that have or that that
that deserve freshness or not? Uh does
it matter on large sides or small? You
know, there's all these like follow-up
tests that you want to do. And so what
I'm trying with my clients is we want to
test into a direction staying
consistently as much as possible with a
high cycle time through the experiments
to learn faster than everybody else
because what I'm seeing is that some
competitors are also running their
consistent tests. And so it's kind of a
race of testing. But um I guess the long
story short is like you want to think
about how do you learn as much as
possible in this time that is super
uncertain and where things are changing
constantly.
Wow. There's there's just a lot going on
and we're we're a little bit over. But I
do want to ask the panelists one final
question. Maybe answer it in one to two
sentences, but what what are the the
tips, the tricks, the you know, what
would you like to leave our audience
with? Uh I'm just going to go around the
board. So Steve, one to two sentences on
how to just win moving forward. Yeah, we
work with a lot of B2B SAS and I think
doubling down on your comparison and
alternative page strategies. Um,
two-way, three-way, um, ICP niched where
you can, where it makes sense. Um, I
think the LLMs are actively pushing
people towards comparison. I mean, it's
a natural, um, strength of LLM to help
you compare uh, different vendors and,
uh, we're we're leaning into that
heavily at Notebook Agency.
Lily, what do you got?
>> Believe it or not, it's the same answer
I always have for years, which is EAT.
Um, the reason for that is the more that
your brand is considered an expert and
authoritative, the more that I've seen
both search engines and LLMs tend to
quickly pick up your content.
>> Ross, what do you got?
>> Uh, I would assume that AI mode's going
to become the default. Likely Gemini is
the default most prominent model. And if
it doesn't happen, that maybe is a good
scenario. So, uh, plan for the worst and
then hope hopefully the best happens. I
think it's the best for everybody.
>> Got it. What do you got?
>> Um, I think the most underrated
ingredient in all of this is trust. Um,
if you're able to build trust with an
audience through whatever means, whether
it's classic content, content marketing,
PR, YouTube, Reddit, wherever. Uh, I
think you have like, you know, one of
these mushrooms from Super Mario that
just make you infinitely bigger, uh, and
give you a big bonus. Whether it's stuff
like, you know, uh, new agentic shopping
protocols or classic search, like the
one recurring factor that I see in my
research all over and over is the the
difference uh, that trust makes.
>> There you go. There's just so much to to
take in. And again, want to do a shout
out to our amazing Rockstar lineup of
panelists. They, you know, took an hour
out of their day to share their wisdom,
their insights. Go follow them on social
media. I had posted all of their links
in chat. And with that, best of luck to
everybody moving forward. 2026, I think,
will continue to be an interesting year
with search and AI search. And it's to
say that I don't think it's going
anywhere. So, the faster you're able to
jump on to testing new ideas, imbuing
your your content and your website with
trust and authority metrics, the better
off you're going to do. Thanks all.
>> Thanks, guys. Pleasure.
>> Thanks everybody.
>> Thanks so much. Have a good day.